---
layout: lesson
title:  "Project 4: Small Business Redesign"
---

### Introduction

This project challenges you to redesign an existing small business/e-commerce site. You will apply principles of usability you learned from the Krugg book and implement the grid design theory covered in the Vinnh text. Your site must include the following:

* Be aesthetically pleasing and functional as a prototype site, applying principles of usability from the Krug readings. Any "unfunctional" features must be user-friendly and tidy.
* Use appropriate techniques based on coursework to this date (semantic markup, BEM convention, efficient CSS, flexbox layout technique, etc.)
* Implement an intentional grid system include baseline grid, rows, and columns as discussed in the Vinh text and online lesson.
* Include at least 8 fully operational pages and placeholders for others.
* Be responsive from smartphone up to standard desktop with 3 designed layouts as a recommended minimum.


### Deliverable A: Planning -- Grid and Style Tiles

Use the template provided to create style tiles for your project that reflect your intended visual direction. 

For your style tiles:

- Consider full color family that accounts for colors you may not plan to use in a significant way but provide options if needed.
- Consider fonts at intended size, with leading, spacing, etc. demonstrated to communicate strong aesthetic sense and visual hierarchy for type.
- Include actual or intended imagery for the site.
- Consider button styles and different states of buttons.

For your grid system:

- First create paper and pencil sketches of the layouts you intend to use in your site. Consider at least the home page, product category page, product detail page, and standard content page. 
- Base this on the method covered in the readings from the Vinh text.
- First plan the font sizes and leading that can span all device sizes: minimum of 318px, mid stop around 768px, and desktop minimum of 1200px.
- Next consider the overall grid you need: how many columns will be needed? How many rows do you want to accommodate above the fold?
- Now do the math you need in order to determine your column placement, golden rectangle line on desktop, and the row lines. 
- Finally consider how this grid flexes for your smaller devices.

Add an artboard to your Sketch file that is 1200px wide. Use the features in Sketch to set up the Layout (grid columns, rows and baseline grid) that you've planned. Then add text boxes on the artboard the outline the following specs:

- Number of grid columns you are using and the pixel amount for the gutters. This should match what you have set up in your layout setting for the artboard as well. Example: `Columns: 12 columns; Gutters: 40px`
- Baseline grid (body copy leading) in pixels. Example: `Baseline grid: 20px`
- GRL (golden ratio line) that you determined based on Vinh's grid approach. Example: `GRL: 720px`
- Number of rows you are subdividing from your GRL. Example: `Rows: 3 pr GRL, 240px each`

***Sync your style tiles and grid system work to a new project in InVision called `Web2 P4 YOURLASTNAME Design Specs`.***


### Deliverable B: Design and Prototype

Follow these notes diligently to complete this deliverable.

1. Create Sketch mockups for each of your page layouts (not necessarily for every page you intend to build) and at each of at least three device sizes as you did on previous projects.
2. Be sure to use fonts from the Google Fonts API and implement a grid system as discussed in this unit.
3. Create three projects in InVision names as follows:

    * `Web2 P4 YOURLASTNAME Desktop`
    * `Web2 P4 YOURLASTNAME Tablet`
    * `Web2 P4 YOURLASTNAME Smartphone`

    Use the corresponding settings for each device as you set up the project. This way you can synchronize each into InVision in a way that makes the prototype there authentic.

4. Add your professor as a collaborator on each of your three projects.
5. When you're finished with your comps in Sketch make a final sync to each project in InVision. Then use InVision's Build Mode to create hotspots that link your two pages together in each device size.

***Ensure your work is synced to InVision by the deadline.***


### Deliverable C: WIP Build -- Markup and Mobile Content Styles

Make any adjustments to your mockup based on feedback from your instructor and sync the changes to InVision.

Create the simplest, semantic markup you need in order to begin to build out your design using HTML and CSS. Follow the same process you have with previous projects for this deliverable.

***Ensure your work is complete in Codio and updated in InVision (as needed) by the deadline.***


### Deliverable D: Final Build

Carrying forward with your build out, now add tile and container settings in order to recreate the layout you've designed. Use your layout analysis from earlier as a guide and be sure to consider microlayouts as well.

Tidy up your work for final submission, ensuring the site is responsive and functional as a prototype site.

***Ensure your work is complete in Codio by the deadline.***


### Resources

The following resources are coming soon:

- [Style tile starter](http://web1.philschanely.com/docs/style-tile-template.sketch)