---
layout: activity
title:  "Mini-project 1"
---
### Overview

This project is aimed to help you continue to improve your speed and proficiency with HTML/CSS skills as well as experiment with a specific genre of web design: a single-page (micro) site.

Choose a topic of interest that includes a variety of high quality images, features or highlights, and some narrative. Examples include an innovative product, a ministry or cause, and an upcoming event. Your site should act as an advertisement or "call to action" (CTA) for the topic such as "Buy now" for a product, "Take action" for a cause, or "Register" for an event.

See the provided wireframes. The site will use the following structure:

* First, it begins with a striking masthead that contains a *full-bleed image, the topic and a tagline*.
* Next will be an overview section that includes *a short lead-in paragraph, several supporting paragraphs and an action button beside a supporting image*.
* Third will be a set of *four features or highlights* on the topic. For example, this could be features of a product, key points or appeals of a cause, or highlights of an upcoming event. Each of these will contain *a single image and brief supporting text*.
* Fourth will be a larger narrative section that includes *several robust paragraphs and at least one bulleted list*.
* Finally, the "footer" will contain *one more image, a final statement an action button and a copyright statement*.

#### Requirements

* Build a single-page site using the deliverables below as a guide.
* Process and deliverables must make use of required tools including Sketch, Invision, and Codio.
* Final submission must include simple, semantic HTML and implement the CSS row-and-column theory covered in this class.

### Resources

[Learn Sketch](http://switchtosketchapp.com)

Download [this Sketch file containing wireframes](/docs/pr1-starter.sketch) you can use as guides for building out your design.

### Deliverable A: Design and Markup

Use the provided wireframes to create your site concept. According to the wireframes this should entail a multi-column layout with a full-bleed masthead but that otherwise occupies a centered 1200px primary layout. Consider 12 100px columns subdividing this space and vertical blocks of 240px for vertical rhythm where practical.

You must use Sketch to create your comps in a single document. Use this Layout and Grid features (View > Canvas > Layout Settings, etc.) to establish your layout and grid. Finally, be sure to use fonts from the Google Fonts API.

To submit your deliverable:

* Create a Project in InVision named `Web2 P1 [Lastname]`.
* Add the professor as a collaborator on this InVision project.
* Sync your art board to this project from Sketch using the Craft plugin.

Create the simplest, semantic markup you need in order to begin to build out your design using HTML and CSS. Follow this process:

1. *Layout Analysis:* Identify and label the rows and columns in your comp.
2. *File setup:*
    1. Open the `Project 1` starter project in Codio and in it create an `images` folder, `styles.css`, and `index.html`.
    2. Export any images you need from your comp using the slice/export options and upload them into your `images` folder in Codio.
4. *Content Markup:* Analyze the structure of the content in your comp and create the corresponding simple HTML content in your `index.html` file.
5. *Organizing/Layout Markup:* Based on your layout analysis, add minimal simple organizing markup around your content markup in order to ensure that you have rows and columns all accounted for.

***Send your professor an email to confirm when you're ready for review of both your design in InVision and your markup in Codio.***

### Deliverable B: Build

Next add styles to just the content elements on your page. You should have at least 7 different styles to account for from your comp including the following:

* normal paragraphs
* normal list items (bulleted or ordered)
* primary heading
* secondary headings
* tagline
* lead paragraph
* action links

Place your styles in styles.css and be sure you're linking this into index.html.

Be sure that you're also linking to any custom fonts in a valid way from within styles.css, such as by implementing the Google Fonts API. Also keep your selectors simple, being only as specific as necessary.

Carrying forward with your build out, now add row and column settings in order to recreate the layout you've designed. Use your layout analysis from earlier as a guide and refer to the provided layout patterns for assistance. Build each responsive stop from mobile up to large desktop using progressively larger media queries and the min-width filter. Your stops should be (default styles are for mobile) 768px (for tablet), 1200px (for small desktop), and 1990px (for large desktop).

***Send your professor an email to confirm your final submission is ready for review.***
