---
layout: activity
title:  "Project 2"
---
### Overview

Imagine you want to start a blog for your own personal and professional writings. You'll need to design a homepage template and an article page template according to the specifications that follow.

#### Requirements

Your blog must...

* display some of your personality while also maintaining a professional, contemporary style; you determine your own "brand" constraints.
* you want to earn some income from the blog so accommodate for [a square (1x1) ad](https://flexibleads.iabtechlab.com/samples/dfp/adbundle_1x1.html) that has a minimum width of `260px`.
* design for at least three standard devices as follows: mobile with minimum width of `318px`, table with minimum width of `720px`, and desktop with minimum width of `1200px`.

Your blog must include the following page templates designed as you see fit:

* **Home page** – this page will include a masthead (no navigation is needed), a main feed of recent articles, and a short biography/profile about you in a sidebar. You must also accommodate the 1x1 ad such that the top of the ad is above the fold somewhere in the layout in the tablet and desktop sizes.
* **Article page** – this page should feature roughly the same masthead and sidebar as the home page (along with the 1x1 ad) but swap out the article list for the content of an article in the main area, which must include:
    * The title of the article
    * The date you published it
    * A lead paragraph
    * The body of an article. While you're welcome to write an article or include one you've already written, sample Lorem Ipsum text is acceptable. However, to create a thorough design style in your comp the sample article should include at least two levels of subheadings (not including the title of the article), bulleted or numbered lists, and block quotes along with any other styles you believe you'd use given the nature of the blog you'd write for.
    * Optionally, but ideally, at least one image
    * Any other metadata you'd like (share links, comment section, etc.)

***Again, both pages must include a placeholder for a 1x1 ad***

As *merely a visual reference*, see this [wireframe report](/docs/mp3-wireframe-report.pdf). Some requirements herein are different from those above but consider this an introduction to reading and working from wireframes.

### Deliverable A: Page Design Drafts

Follow this process:

1. Create thumbnail sketches of your page templates on paper first to explore how the required components could fit together.
2. Hone in on a direction from your thumbnails and move into Sketch to create mockups. Use a new "Page" in sketch for each set of device-specific mockups and place each mockup on its own Artboard. So you should have at least three Pages in your sketch file (smartphone, tablet, desktop) each with two artboards (home page, article page). This will make things easier to sync with InVision.
3. Create a Project in InVision for each device size you design named `Web2 P2 YOURLASTNAME DEVICENAME`. Add the professor as a collaborator on each project.
4. Synchronize your Sketch file assets with each corresponding InVision project... A Page in Sketch corresponds to a Project in InVision and each Artboard in Sketch becomes a Screen in InVision. Set up navigable hotspots to simulate the interaction between the homepage and an article page in each project.

***Ensure your work is synced to InVision and notify your instructor via email if you're ready for review before the deadline***

### Deliverable B: Markup and Content Styles

Apply any feedback from your professor to your design comps and ensure the latest is synced to InVision.

Then move into the provided project space in Codio and create the two HTML files required for the project. Add clean, simple, semantic markup in each. Then add a central stylesheet and add at least the content styles you'll need for your build out. Focus on the settings in just your mobile mockup at this point and don't fret about any layout aspects; just type, color, and spacing.

***Ensure your work in progress (WIP) is on Codio, notifying your instructor via email if you're ready for review before the deadline***

### Deliverable C: Responsive Layout Build

Make any updates based on feedback from your professor. Then proceed to build out the responsive layout for your project. Be sure to start with the mobile styles as your default settings and add `min-width` media queries to scale up as discussed in the lessons.

***Submit your final work on Codio, notifying your instructor via email if you're ready for review before the deadline***
