---
layout: activity
title:  "Project 4"
---

### Introduction

This final project will be an elective project in which you can choose the topic/focus of your site as long as the following requirements are met:

* The site must be aesthetically pleasing and functional as a prototype site. Any "unfunctional" features must be user-friendly and tidy.
* The site must use appropriate techniques based on coursework to this date (semantic markup, BEM convention, efficient CSS, flexbox layout technique, etc.)
* The site must implement an intentional grid system include baseline grid, rows, and columns as discussed in the Vinh text and online lesson.
* The site must include at least 5 fully operational pages, and placeholders for others.
* The site must be responsive from smartphone up to standard desktop with 3 designed layouts as a recommended minimum.


### Deliverable A: Design and Prototype

Follow these notes diligently to complete this deliverable.

1. Create Sketch mockups for each of your page layouts (not necessarily for every page you intend to build) and at each of at least three device sizes as you did on previous projects.
2. Be sure to use fonts from the Google Fonts API and implement a grid system as discussed in this unit.
3. Create three projects in InVision names as follows:

    * Web2 P4 [Lastname] - Desktop
    * Web2 P4 [Lastname] - Tablet
    * Web2 P4 [Lastname] - Smartphone

    Use the corresponding settings for each device as you set up the project. This way you can synchronize each into InVision in a way that makes the prototype there authentic.

4. Add your professor as a collaborator on each of your three projects.
5. When you're finished with your comps in Sketch make a final sync to each project in InVision. Then use InVision's Build Mode to create hotspots that link your two pages together in each device size.

***Send an email to let your instructor know you're ready for feedback.***

### Deliverable B: Markup and Mobile Content Styles

Make any adjustments to your mockup based on feedback from your instructor and sync the changes to InVision.

Create the simplest, semantic markup you need in order to begin to build out your design using HTML and CSS. Follow the same process you have with previous projects for this deliverable.

***Send your prof an email to confirm when you're ready for feedback.***

### Deliverable C: Layout Styles

Carrying forward with your build out, now add tile and container settings in order to recreate the layout you've designed. Use your layout analysis from earlier as a guide and be sure to consider microlayouts as well.

Tidy up your work for final submission.

***Send your prof an email to confirm you're ready for final evaluation.***
